# CAPSTONE PROJECT FOR THE MASTER OF SCIENCE IN BUSINESS ANALYTICS NYU UNIVERSITY

The project’s scope is focused on the development of a tool that monitors and
 assesses the efficiency of coders while editing code. The project has been 
named Effikey, a derivation of the words "efficient keystrokes". Effikey was
 developed to collect a specific set of data generated by the behavior of 
coders while editing code and analyzes the data according to a predefined set
 of rules, with the output of a report which highlights efficient and
 inefficient code editing practices. For the purposes of our project,
 efficiency is measured by the duration required to accomplish an editing task.
 It doesn't concern itslef with the quality of the code.

To break down the data collected by the Effikey solution, the team built a
 model which translates each individual keystroke event into a 
‘continuous vector’ of events containing every keystroke that has been
 collected. It then truncates the continuous vector based on data driven
 assumptions into the smaller ‘task-run vectors’ and looks at each 
‘task-run vector’ to create multiple additional features and provide insight
 into the inefficient and efficient practices.

The purpose of this project is to understand what affects efficiency when
 coding and to find the potential time that could be saved if efficient 
practices are adopted. Therefore, our dependent variable in our model is the
 penalty time, in seconds, for delete and navigating tasks. As such, our models
 will find the importance with which each of the features affect the
 inefficiencies.
